content/page/about.md, before:

+++
aliases = ["about-me", "about-this-blog", "info"]
date = "2014-01-16T19:39:19+00:00"
description = "Short description of this blog and my story"
draft = false
hidefromhome = true
highlight = false
slug = "about"
title = "About this blog and me"
type = "page"
weight = 0
+++


## Background

The idea of this blog started a long before I actually started to write
something on it. It was under construction for something like 2-3 years (or even
more, I can't remember). But now it's alive and kicking, under constant
renewal. Apparently I like configure it more than write stuff on it.


## Who are you?

Our extremely trained public relations team. Nah, just kidding, it's just me, a
normal person (I hope).

I'm a geek, an IT fanatic and have many things in my mind I'd like to say - so
this blog could be the best way. Some may describe me as a loquacious stubborn
workaholic that may bore you, some others as a person that likes to bring some
happiness and help around. I don't know if those descriptions are accurate, what
do you think?

Also [my Twitter](https://twitter.com/TheMatjaz) is a collection of some
neuronal activity of mine, check it out!


## What do you write about?

I love technology, psychology, physics and other geeky stuff but the arguments
of this blog will mainly be **security, privacy, software, databases, Unix &
other IT-stuff**. I hope that what I write could help others in their lives, in
their usage of technology and many other things.


## Wait, why are you writing in english? It's not your mother-tongue...

Correct, it's actually the 4th language I've learned and since I'm not an expert
please correct me, if you find some errors. I'd appreciate it, since I'm a
grammar-nazi as well. I've chosen english[*] because it's universal, since I know
many people of different mother-tongues. Also by writing in english I can hope
somebody else in the world will find what I write useful or at least
fascinating.

[*] some posts may be in other languages.

Commit message:

Remove background from about page, add Owner's name, add link to license

content/page/about.md, after:

+++
aliases = ["about-me", "about-this-blog", "info"]
date = "2014-01-16T19:39:19+00:00"
description = "Short description of this blog and my story"
draft = false
hidefromhome = true
highlight = false
slug = "about"
title = "About this blog and me"
type = "page"
weight = 0
+++





## Who are you?

Our extremely trained public relations team. Nah, just kidding, it's just me, a
normal person (I hope).

My name is Matjaž Guštin. I'm a geek, an IT fanatic and have many things in my
mind I'd like to say - so this blog could be the best way. Some may describe me
as a loquacious stubborn workaholic that may bore you, some others as a person
that likes to bring some happiness and help around. I don't know if those
descriptions are accurate, what do you think?

Also [my Twitter](https://twitter.com/TheMatjaz) is a collection of some
neuronal activity of mine, check it out!


## What do you write about?

I love technology, psychology, physics and other geeky stuff but the arguments
of this blog will mainly be **security, privacy, software, databases, Unix &
other IT-stuff**. I hope that what I write could help others in their lives, in
their usage of technology and many other things.

Feel free to use the content of the website upon providing me credit! Check
the [legal notice](/legal-notice/) for more information.


## Wait, why are you writing in english? It's not your mother-tongue...

Correct, it's actually the 4th language I've learned and since I'm not an expert
please correct me, if you find some errors. I'd appreciate it, since I'm a
grammar-nazi as well. I've chosen english[*] because it's universal, since I
know many people of different mother-tongues. Also by writing in english I can
hope somebody else in the world will find what I write useful or at least
fascinating.

[*] some posts may be in other languages.
