content/page/contact.md, before:

+++
aliases      = ["gpg", "pgp", "contact-me", "siggpg", "signal"]
date         = "2014-05-19T09:44:44+00:00"
description  = "Contact information, OpenPGP public key, Signal fingerprint, social links and the blog's RSS feed."
draft        = false
hidefromhome = true
highlight    = false
lastmod      = "2016-07-26T00:46:26+02:00"
slug         = "contact"
title        = "Contacts, Signal and OpenPGP"
type         = "page"
weight       = 0
+++


- [@TheMatjaz](https://twitter.com/TheMatjaz)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/TheMatjaz)
- <a href="/index.xml" type="application/rss+xml">Follow this blog (RSS feed)</a>
- [blog@matjaz.it](mailto:blog@matjaz.it)
- [PGP/GnuPG public key on KeyBase](https://keybase.io/TheMatjaz)
- [PGP/GnuPG public key on MIT keyserver](https://pgp.mit.edu/pks/lookup?op=vindex&search=0x438406FCCE32DC1E)


## Signal {#signal}

My favorite communication tool is **[Signal](https://whispersystems.org/)** by
Open Whisper Systems. Phone number provided upon request.

- [Fingerprint](/text/signal_fingerprint.txt) as verified on 
  [Twitter](https://twitter.com/TheMatjaz/status/757999117696106500)
- [GnuPG signed fingerprint](/text/signal_fingerprint.asc)
- [QR code](/images/qr-code/signal_fingerprint.png) as verified on 
  [Twitter](https://twitter.com/TheMatjaz/status/757999266258358272)

Commit message:

Remove Signal fingerprints as they are not required anymore
See: https://whispersystems.org/blog/safety-number-updates/

After a Signal update, the fingerprint, now called Safety Number,
is “per-conversation rather than per-user”, making it useless to publish
them online.

content/page/contact.md, after:

+++
aliases      = ["gpg", "pgp", "contact-me", "siggpg"]
date         = "2014-05-19T09:44:44+00:00"
description  = "Contact information, OpenPGP public key, social links and the blog's RSS feed."
draft        = false
hidefromhome = true
highlight    = false
lastmod      = "2016-07-26T00:46:26+02:00"
slug         = "contact"
title        = "Contact information"
type         = "page"
weight       = 0
+++

My favorite communication tools are [Signal](https://whispersystems.org/) by
Open Whisper Systems and WhatsApp (in this order) because of the
state-of-the-art encryption. Phone number provided upon request.

- [@TheMatjaz](https://twitter.com/TheMatjaz)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/TheMatjaz)
- <a href="/index.xml" type="application/rss+xml">Follow this blog (RSS feed)</a>
- [blog@matjaz.it](mailto:blog@matjaz.it)
- [PGP/GnuPG public key on KeyBase](https://keybase.io/TheMatjaz)
- [PGP/GnuPG public key on MIT keyserver](https://pgp.mit.edu/pks/lookup?op=vindex&search=0x438406FCCE32DC1E)
