content/page/legal.md, before:

+++
aliases      = ["copyright", "notice", "terms", "privacy", "legal", "tos", "policy", "license", "disclaimer"]
date         = "2016-06-06T21:32:44+02:00"
description  = "Legal notice, copyright, creative commons, privacy policy, terms of service and disclaimers all in one page explained simply."
draft        = false
hidefromhome = true
highlight    = false
lastmod      = "2016-07-26T00:46:26+02:00"
slug         = "legal-notice"
title        = "Legal notice: copyright, privacy and disclaimer"
type         = "page"
weight       = 0

+++

This notice governs the manner in which the owner and author Matjaž Guštin
("Website Owner") of the website _"Thinking in a digital life"_ hosted on
[matjaz.it](/) ("This Website" or "Website") licenses any content published on
it ("Content") and how the Website Owner collects, uses, maintains and discloses
information collected from users ("User") of the Website.


## Copyright and Creative Commons

The Content on [matjaz.it](/) is **free and open even for commercial purposes**
upon providing credit to the Website Owner, except for the logo and where is
explicitly stated otherwise.


### Website logo

The _matjaz.it logo_, as seen in the
[PNG format](/images/logos/matjaz_it_logo.png) or as inline-SVG in the website
header, **is copyrighted property** of the Website Owner. All rights
reserved. The logo may not be used, except by prior explicit authorization.


### Source code snippets

Any source code published on [matjaz.it](/), except where is explicitly stated
otherwise, is released under the
**[BSD 3-clause License](/bsd-3-clause-license/)**,
also known as _Revised BSD License_, _New BSD License_ or _Modified BSD
License_.


### Text, images and other content

All remaining Content, except for where is explicitly stated otherwise, is
published under the terms and conditions of the
**[Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)**
also known as _CC BY 4.0_.


### Exceptions

This does not apply to any content with explicitly reserved reproduction rights:
`©` or `(c)` or `(C)` followed by the right owner or for content not created by
the Website Owner. Reproduction of the latter requires prior authorization from
the original author.


## Privacy and personal data

The Website Owner is committed to user privacy. For this reason This Website
**does not use cookies, advertisement, Google Analytics, Google Fonts** or
similar tracking tools.

For each page visited the information your browser sends to the web server
hosting This Website is logged for statistical purposes. This information
includes your IP address, ISP, user agent, visited URL and other parts of the
HTTP request header. The Website Owner is committed **not to disclose** this
data to **any third party** and to use it exclusively to evaluate and improve
This Website.

The Website Owner only keeps this data for the time necessary to fulfill the
purpose of collection or further processing. Adequate security measures have
been taken to safeguard your information against possible misuse or unauthorized
access as much as it is feasible.

In any moment the User has the right to access the collected data about him/her
and request the complete removal of it from the logs. For any query or
complaint, please [contact](/contact/) the Website Owner.

The Website Owner has the discretion to update this privacy policy at any
time. The User is encouraged to frequently check this page for any changes.


## Disclaimer of warranties and limitation of liability

Unless quoting someone, opinions and views expressed on This Website are the
Website Owner's only and do not not reflect those of people the Website Owner
has any relationship with.

The Website Owner's goal is to keep all information on This Website timely and
accurate. However, the Website Owner **cannot guarantee that all the information
on this Website is correct or unbiased** as stated in the
[Section 5](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode) of the full
CC BY 4.0 License.

The Website Owner does not assume any responsibility regarding links to external
sites over which the Website Owner has no control. Those links do neither imply
responsibility for nor approval of the information contained in any other
website. Nonetheless, the Website Owner seeks to protect the integrity of This
Website and welcomes any feedback about these sites.


## Website's source code

The [source code of this Website](https://github.com/TheMatjaz/matjaz.it) (such
as the website generator configuration, theme, CSS files etc.) is under the
[GNU GPLv3 license](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html).


*******

_Big thanks to the [EQAR](https://www.eqar.eu/about/topnav/legal-notice.html)
website, which is under CC BY-SA 2.0, for the great legal notice that was used as
template. Because of that, the content of this particular page is released under
the [CC BY-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/) license._

Commit message:

Improve legal notice
- Remove redundant parts in content license section
- Improve content license section title and page title
- Add list of things the website does not do to protect the user's
  privacy
- Change "information is logged" to "information may be logged" since
  a shared hosting does not necessarly log anything and the Owner has
  no control over it

Inspired by https://www.franzoni.eu/license-legal-and-credits/
and https://yawnbox.com/index.php/about/

content/page/legal.md, after:

+++
aliases      = ["copyright", "notice", "terms", "privacy", "legal", "tos", "policy", "license", "disclaimer"]
date         = "2016-06-06T21:32:44+02:00"
description  = "Legal notice, copyright, creative commons, privacy policy, terms of service and disclaimers all in one page explained simply."
draft        = false
hidefromhome = true
highlight    = false
lastmod      = "2016-07-26T22:53:32+0200"
slug         = "legal-notice"
title        = "Legal notice: content license, privacy and disclaimers"
type         = "page"
weight       = 0

+++

This notice governs the manner in which the owner and author Matjaž Guštin
("Website Owner") of the website _"Thinking in a digital life"_ hosted on
[matjaz.it](/) ("This Website" or "Website") licenses any content published on
it ("Content") and how the Website Owner collects, uses, maintains and discloses
information collected from users ("User") of the Website.


## Content license

### Website logo

The _matjaz.it logo_, as seen in the
[PNG format](/images/logos/matjaz_it_logo.png) or as inline-SVG in the website
header, **is copyrighted property** of the Website Owner. All rights
reserved. The logo may not be used, except by prior explicit authorization.


### Source code snippets

Any source code published on [matjaz.it](/), except where is explicitly stated
otherwise, is released under the
**[BSD 3-clause License](/bsd-3-clause-license/)**,
also known as _Revised BSD License_, _New BSD License_ or _Modified BSD
License_.


### Text, images and other content

All remaining Content, except where is explicitly stated otherwise, is
published under the terms and conditions of the
**[Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)**
also known as _CC BY 4.0_.


## Privacy and personal data

The Website Owner is committed to user privacy. For this reason This Website:

- **does not use cookies**
- **does not advertise**
- **does not track users for website metrics** with analytics tools such as 
  Google Analytics
- self-hosts as many resources as possible such as Javascript, CSS and font 
  files
- does not use Content Delivery Networks (CDN)
- does not need Javascript to be used

For each page visited the information your browser sends to the web server
hosting This Website may be logged for statistical purposes. This information
includes your IP address, ISP, user agent, visited URL and other parts of the
HTTP request header. The Website Owner is committed **not to disclose** this
data to **any third party** and to use it exclusively to evaluate and improve
This Website.

The Website Owner only keeps this data for the time necessary to fulfill the
purpose of collection or further processing. Adequate security measures have
been taken to safeguard your information against possible misuse or unauthorized
access as much as it is feasible.

In any moment the User has the right to access the collected data about him/her
and request the complete removal of it from the logs. For any query or
complaint, please [contact](/contact/) the Website Owner.

The Website Owner has the discretion to update this privacy policy at any
time. The User is encouraged to frequently check this page for any changes.


## Disclaimer of warranties and limitation of liability

Unless quoting someone, opinions and views expressed on This Website are the
Website Owner's only and do not not reflect those of people the Website Owner
has any relationship with.

The Website Owner's goal is to keep all information on This Website timely and
accurate. However, the Website Owner **cannot guarantee that all the information
on this Website is correct or unbiased** as stated in the
[Section 5](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode) of the full
CC BY 4.0 License.

The Website Owner does not assume any responsibility regarding links to external
sites over which the Website Owner has no control. Those links do neither imply
responsibility for nor approval of the information contained in any other
website. Nonetheless, the Website Owner seeks to protect the integrity of This
Website and welcomes any feedback about these sites.


## Website's source code

The [source code of this Website](https://github.com/TheMatjaz/matjaz.it) (such
as the website generator configuration, theme, CSS files etc.) is under the
[GNU GPLv3 license](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html).


*******

_Big thanks to the [EQAR](https://www.eqar.eu/about/topnav/legal-notice.html)
website, which is under CC BY-SA 2.0, for the great legal notice that was used as
template. Because of that, the content of this particular page is released under
the [CC BY-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/) license._
