content/page/slides.md, before:

+++
aliases      = ["slide", "talk", "talks", "presentation", "presentations", "powerpoint", "powerpoints"]
date         = "2016-06-09T23:02:19+02:00"
description  = "The slides I used in my talks are here for anybody who needs to check them again."
draft        = false
hidefromhome = true
highlight    = false
lastmod      = "2016-07-26T00:46:26+02:00"
slug         = "slides"
title        = "Talks and slides"
type         = "page"
weight       = 0

+++


## ELSA Summer Law School: Media Law

- 27 July 2016
- Event: [ELSA Trieste](http://www.elsatrieste.it/)'s
  [summer law school about Media law](http://lawschools.elsa.org/traineeship/trieste-media-law/)
- Talk: **Computer Engineering Basics: the scary part made simple**:
  [slides](/pdf/Computer_engineering_basics_-_the_scary_part_made_simple.pdf),
  [printable list of definitions](/pdf/Computer_engineering_glossary.pdf)


## EESTEC Informatica Pop

- 26 April to 24 May 2016
- Event: [EESTEC LC Trieste](http://ts.eestec.it/)'s series of talks **in
  Italian** called [Informatica Pop](http://ts.eestec.it/informatica-pop/) about
  good-to-know tricks and tips for any computer and smartphone user in a
  non-technical way.

Commit message:

Add slides for C Error Handling Design Patterns to Slides page

content/page/slides.md, after:

+++
aliases      = ["slide", "talk", "talks", "presentation", "presentations", "powerpoint", "powerpoints"]
date         = "2016-06-09T23:02:19+02:00"
description  = "The slides I used in my talks/presentations are here for anybody who needs to check them again."
draft        = false
hidefromhome = true
highlight    = false
lastmod      = "2019-01-09T19:05:06+01:00"
slug         = "slides"
title        = "Talks and slides"
type         = "page"
weight       = 0

+++

## Design Patterns course at TU Graz

- 2019-01-09
- Event: Presentation for the exam in Design Patterns at the [TU Graz
](https://www.tugraz.at)
- Talk: **Design Patterns for error handling in non-OOP languages**: namely in ISO C
  - Slides: [v1.1](/pdf/C_error_handling_design_patterns_v1.1.pdf), [v1.0](/pdf/C_error_handling_design_patterns_v1.0.pdf): the v1.1 is the presented version, similar to the v1.0 but with many slides removed due to the time limitation.
  - The source code of the presentation is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/TheMatjaz/c_error_handling_design_patterns)


## ELSA Summer Law School: Media Law

- 2016-07-27
- Event: [ELSA Trieste](http://www.elsatrieste.it/)'s
  [summer law school about Media law](http://lawschools.elsa.org/traineeship/trieste-media-law/)
- Talk: **Computer Engineering Basics: the scary part made simple**:
  [slides](/pdf/Computer_engineering_basics_-_the_scary_part_made_simple.pdf),
  [printable list of definitions](/pdf/Computer_engineering_glossary.pdf)


## EESTEC Informatica Pop

- 2016-04-26 to 2016-05-24
- Event: [EESTEC LC Trieste](http://ts.eestec.it/)'s series of talks **in
  Italian** called [Informatica Pop](http://ts.eestec.it/informatica-pop/) about
  good-to-know tricks and tips for any computer and smartphone user in a
  non-technical way.
