THANKS.md, before:

Software used to build the _matjaz.it_ blog
===============================================================================


Third party code
----------------

- The [Hugo Zen](https://github.com/rakuishi/hugo-zen) theme by 
  [Rakuishi](https://github.com/rakuishi) (MIT License) which I customized
- The Social/Contact icons from the 
  [Decode theme](https://github.com/MachoThemes/decode) for 
  [Wordpress](https://wordpress.org) by 
  [MachoThemes](https://www.machothemes.com), such as the contact icons and 
  their code. Note that Decode is under the GNU GPL v3 license, which requires 
  this blog's code and theme to be under it as well.
- Some [Markdown licenses](https://github.com/IQAndreas/markdown-licenses) by 
  [IQAndreas](https://github.com/IQAndreas)
- Google Fonts: [Roboto Regular](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Roboto) by 
  Christian Robertson (Apache v2.0 License) and 
  [Inconsolata Regular](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Inconsolata) by Raph
  Levien (Open Font License v1.1)
- [Highlight.js](https://highlightjs.org/) Javascript and CSS code by 
  Ivan Sagalaev (BSD 3-clause License)
- [Base16 Atelier Forest Light Highlighting CSS](https://github.com/atelierbram/syntax-highlighting/)
   by Bram de Haan (MIT License)


Software tools used
-------------------

- The [Hugo](https://gohugo.io) static website engine to generate the website
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/) (quite obviously) to manage the code and content
- A text editor, currently [Emacs](https://www.emacswiki.org)
- [My custom shell](https://github.com/TheMatjaz/dotfiles)
- [Inkscape](https://www.inkscape.org/) to manipulate SVG images
- [Exiftool](http://www.sno.phy.queensu.ca/~phil/exiftool/) to manipulate JPG
  metadata, like the copyright notice


Web tools used
--------------

- [Real Favicon Generator](https://realfavicongenerator.net/) is an awesome 
  generator of the _right way_ to create the favicons for your website
- Website speed and quality test:
    - [Google PageSpeed Insights](https://developers.google.com/speed/pagespeed/insights/)
    - [Pingdom Tools](https://tools.pingdom.com/)
    - [Varvy](https://varvy.com/): it has tests for SEO, speed and mobile and
      many many suggestions on speeding up your website
- [CSS Compressor](http://csscompressor.com/) can minify your CSS easily, while
  [CSS Lint](http://csslint.net/) can find any errors in it
- [Inline SVG Optimizer](https://petercollingridge.appspot.com/svg-optimiser)
  made my logo 50% smaller

Commit message:

Add GTmetrix, SSLlabs and Securityheaders.io to web tools used

THANKS.md, after:

Software used to build the _matjaz.it_ blog
===============================================================================


Third party code
----------------

- The [Hugo Zen](https://github.com/rakuishi/hugo-zen) theme by 
  [Rakuishi](https://github.com/rakuishi) (MIT License) which I customized
- The Social/Contact icons from the 
  [Decode theme](https://github.com/MachoThemes/decode) for 
  [Wordpress](https://wordpress.org) by 
  [MachoThemes](https://www.machothemes.com), such as the contact icons and 
  their code. Note that Decode is under the GNU GPL v3 license, which requires 
  this blog's code and theme to be under it as well.
- Some [Markdown licenses](https://github.com/IQAndreas/markdown-licenses) by 
  [IQAndreas](https://github.com/IQAndreas)
- Google Fonts: [Roboto Regular](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Roboto) by 
  Christian Robertson (Apache v2.0 License) and 
  [Inconsolata Regular](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Inconsolata) by Raph
  Levien (Open Font License v1.1)
- [Highlight.js](https://highlightjs.org/) Javascript and CSS code by 
  Ivan Sagalaev (BSD 3-clause License)
- [Base16 Atelier Forest Light Highlighting CSS](https://github.com/atelierbram/syntax-highlighting/)
   by Bram de Haan (MIT License)


Software tools used
-------------------

- The [Hugo](https://gohugo.io) static website engine to generate the website
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/) (quite obviously) to manage the code and content
- A text editor, currently [Emacs](https://www.emacswiki.org)
- [My custom shell](https://github.com/TheMatjaz/dotfiles)
- [Inkscape](https://www.inkscape.org/) to manipulate SVG images
- [Exiftool](http://www.sno.phy.queensu.ca/~phil/exiftool/) to manipulate JPG
  metadata, like the copyright notice


Web tools used
--------------

- [Real Favicon Generator](https://realfavicongenerator.net/) is an awesome 
  generator of the _right way_ to create the favicons for your website
- Website speed and quality test:
    - [Varvy](https://varvy.com/): it has tests for SEO, speed and mobile and
      many many suggestions on speeding up your website
    - [Google PageSpeed Insights](https://developers.google.com/speed/pagespeed/insights/)
    - [Pingdom Tools](https://tools.pingdom.com/)
    - [GTmetrix](https://gtmetrix.com/)
- [CSS Compressor](http://csscompressor.com/) can minify your CSS easily, while
  [CSS Lint](http://csslint.net/) can find any errors in it
- [Inline SVG Optimizer](https://petercollingridge.appspot.com/svg-optimiser)
  made my logo 50% smaller
- [SSLlabs.com](https://www.ssllabs.com/ssltest/) is the leading test on the web
  to check your SSL/TLS certificate
- [Securityheaders.io](https://securityheaders.io/) check and teaches you about
  HTTP headers you can use to improve your website's security
