content/post/2014-05-19-diy-standing-desk-for-8-euro.md, before:

+++
aliases      = ["diy-standing-desk-for-8-euros"]
categories   = ["Computer", "Life Hacks"]
date         = "2014-05-19T08:32:08+00:00"
description  = "The first post of this blog"
draft        = false
hidefromhome = false
slug         = "diy-standing-desk-for-8-euro"
tags         = ["Computer", "Lifehack", "Desk", "Standing Desk", "Wood", "Maker"]
title        = "DIY Standing desk for 8 € (and some tools)"
type         = "post"
weight       = 0
+++


Standing desks are becoming more and more popular in the last years. Don't know what a standing desk is? It's a desk of a certain height so you could work while standing instead of sitting. Why? Because sitting is lethal. Standing keeps you more engaged in your work, more dynamic, less lazy and has some health benefits like better posture, but too much standing may hurt and be unhealthy. So the best thing may be the _aurea mediocritas_, a path in the middle. There are [many many many posts on Lifehacker about standing desks](http://lifehacker.com/tag/standing-desk), just check them out for more details. I may suggest you [this one](http://lifehacker.com/5735528/why-and-how-i-switched-to-a-standing-desk).

Usually the standing desk is intended for computers, since it may not be so easy to write on paper when standing. At least my handwriting is already bad when sitting, so I'm not even trying it when standing.

So I wanted to give this standing desk craze but **I wanted a modular desk**, where I could stand or sit whenever I wanted to. Since **I already had a normal sitting desk**, I made an extension to made it a standing one and I spent 8 € since I already own some tools, glue and other stuff.


### Bought parts


I went to Ikea to buy [this side table](http://www.ikea.com/gb/en/catalog/products/20011413/#/40104270), called _Lack_. It's product code is 401.042.70 You can use that in the search bar in their web page to find it. I chose the "Birch effect" texture, but this is up to you. It looks like this (image by Ikea):

[![Lack](http://www.ikea.com/gb/en/images/products/lack-side-table__0258026_PE401998_S4.JPG)](http://www.ikea.com/gb/en/images/products/lack-side-table__0258026_PE401998_S4.JPG)

It's sold with the screws to fix the legs on the bigger part. It's cost was 8 € so I gave it a try.


### Used tools





	
  1. Vinyl glue for wood

	
  2. Circular saw

	
  3. Hand saw for metal or any other more precise hand saw

	
  4. Four pieces of wood or plywood

	
  5. Sandpaper 180

	
  6. Four pieces of rubber

	
  7. Mastic

	
  8. Stick-on floor protector(s)

	
  9. Four clamps

	
  10. Level, a long one




### Procedure


I took some measures since I had to cut the legs to adapt it to my height. **When placed on my desk my forearms had to be horizontal**, when typing on my computer placed on the Lack. So I cut the legs at the correct height. They are hollow. The now on the right is upside-down.

[![Legs](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Legs-600x800.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Legs.jpg)

I have many pieces of plywood from other projects, as you can see.

[![Wood](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Wood-800x600.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Wood.jpg)

Vinilic glue for wood made me feel like I'm in primary school again.

[![Vinavil](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Vinavil-600x800.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Vinavil.jpg)

Sandpaper. I used 180, but pretty much anything between 120 and 200 should be ok, if you don't want to ruin the look of the plywood.

[![Sandpaper](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Sandpaper-800x600.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Sandpaper.jpg)

Cut and scratch the pieces of plywood so they can hardly fit the inner part of the legs. With a lot of glue, of course and a couple of hours to let it dry.
[![Leg_fill](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Leg_fill-600x800.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Leg_fill.jpg)

After that I cut some rubber in the shape of the leg and used the sandpaper to make it look more "stylish". The rubber will provide a good grip with the desk and will prevent scratching. An alternative may be using stick-on floor protectors but your Lack may lacking (no pun intended) of grip.

[![Cut_rubber](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Cut_rubber-800x600.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Cut_rubber.jpg)

Mastic and some pressure for a couple of hours.

[![Leg_pressure](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Leg_pressure-800x600.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Leg_pressure.jpg)

Legs finished!

[![Legs_result](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Legs_result-800x600.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Legs_result.jpg)

Now take the upper part of the Lack. You can see the 4 little holes on the sides.

[![Table_upside-down](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Table_upside-down-800x600.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Table_upside-down.jpg)

[![Screws](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Screws-800x600.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Screws.jpg)

The Ikea screws have to be applied in the legs and then in the table.[![Apply_screws](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Apply_screws-600x800.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Apply_screws.jpg) [![Screw_leg_and_table](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Screw_leg_and_table-600x800.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Screw_leg_and_table.jpg)

Aaaand it looks cool, but it's not yet the end.

[![Legs_applied](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Legs_applied-800x600.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Legs_applied.jpg)

Some levelling is needed or the table will be unstable. Place the Lack upside down and be sure it's on a horizontal surface. I used newspapers.

[![Levelling](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Levelling-800x600.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Levelling.jpg)

After that verify that every leg is at the same height with every leg. If not, scratch the rubber with the sandpaper of the taller legs.

[![Levelling_legs](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Levelling_legs-800x600.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Levelling_legs.jpg)

Since only one of the legs was incorrect and I was tired of scratching it, I put a stick-on floor protector on another leg. Now the leg with the protector was to tall, so I scratched the protector. It's not a very clean solution, but it worked.

[![Stick](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Stick-800x600.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Stick.jpg) [![Cut_sticker](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Cut_sticker-800x600.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Cut_sticker.jpg)


### Final result


Its weight is **3.5 kg** once cut, so it's very easy to place on the desk or remove when using the desk while sitting. An A4 piece of paper for scale.

[![Final_result](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Final_result-749x800.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Final_result.jpg)

Commit message:

Fixed disappearing posts from home page, added descriptions of posts
Apparently the `hidefromhome` option in the frontmatter, even if false,
makes the post disappead from the home page. Removing the line instead
of setting it to `false` is a simple solution.

content/post/2014-05-19-diy-standing-desk-for-8-euro.md, after:

+++
aliases      = ["diy-standing-desk-for-8-euros"]
categories   = ["Computer", "Life Hacks"]
date         = "2014-05-19T08:32:08+00:00"
description  = "My tutorial on creating a very basic extension of your desk"
draft        = false
slug         = "diy-standing-desk-for-8-euro"
tags         = ["Computer", "Lifehack", "Desk", "Standing Desk", "Wood", "Maker"]
title        = "DIY Standing desk for 8 € (and some tools)"
type         = "post"
weight       = 0
+++


Standing desks are becoming more and more popular in the last years. Don't know what a standing desk is? It's a desk of a certain height so you could work while standing instead of sitting. Why? Because sitting is lethal. Standing keeps you more engaged in your work, more dynamic, less lazy and has some health benefits like better posture, but too much standing may hurt and be unhealthy. So the best thing may be the _aurea mediocritas_, a path in the middle. There are [many many many posts on Lifehacker about standing desks](http://lifehacker.com/tag/standing-desk), just check them out for more details. I may suggest you [this one](http://lifehacker.com/5735528/why-and-how-i-switched-to-a-standing-desk).

Usually the standing desk is intended for computers, since it may not be so easy to write on paper when standing. At least my handwriting is already bad when sitting, so I'm not even trying it when standing.

So I wanted to give this standing desk craze but **I wanted a modular desk**, where I could stand or sit whenever I wanted to. Since **I already had a normal sitting desk**, I made an extension to made it a standing one and I spent 8 € since I already own some tools, glue and other stuff.


### Bought parts


I went to Ikea to buy [this side table](http://www.ikea.com/gb/en/catalog/products/20011413/#/40104270), called _Lack_. It's product code is 401.042.70 You can use that in the search bar in their web page to find it. I chose the "Birch effect" texture, but this is up to you. It looks like this (image by Ikea):

[![Lack](http://www.ikea.com/gb/en/images/products/lack-side-table__0258026_PE401998_S4.JPG)](http://www.ikea.com/gb/en/images/products/lack-side-table__0258026_PE401998_S4.JPG)

It's sold with the screws to fix the legs on the bigger part. It's cost was 8 € so I gave it a try.


### Used tools





	
  1. Vinyl glue for wood

	
  2. Circular saw

	
  3. Hand saw for metal or any other more precise hand saw

	
  4. Four pieces of wood or plywood

	
  5. Sandpaper 180

	
  6. Four pieces of rubber

	
  7. Mastic

	
  8. Stick-on floor protector(s)

	
  9. Four clamps

	
  10. Level, a long one




### Procedure


I took some measures since I had to cut the legs to adapt it to my height. **When placed on my desk my forearms had to be horizontal**, when typing on my computer placed on the Lack. So I cut the legs at the correct height. They are hollow. The now on the right is upside-down.

[![Legs](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Legs-600x800.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Legs.jpg)

I have many pieces of plywood from other projects, as you can see.

[![Wood](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Wood-800x600.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Wood.jpg)

Vinilic glue for wood made me feel like I'm in primary school again.

[![Vinavil](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Vinavil-600x800.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Vinavil.jpg)

Sandpaper. I used 180, but pretty much anything between 120 and 200 should be ok, if you don't want to ruin the look of the plywood.

[![Sandpaper](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Sandpaper-800x600.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Sandpaper.jpg)

Cut and scratch the pieces of plywood so they can hardly fit the inner part of the legs. With a lot of glue, of course and a couple of hours to let it dry.
[![Leg_fill](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Leg_fill-600x800.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Leg_fill.jpg)

After that I cut some rubber in the shape of the leg and used the sandpaper to make it look more "stylish". The rubber will provide a good grip with the desk and will prevent scratching. An alternative may be using stick-on floor protectors but your Lack may lacking (no pun intended) of grip.

[![Cut_rubber](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Cut_rubber-800x600.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Cut_rubber.jpg)

Mastic and some pressure for a couple of hours.

[![Leg_pressure](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Leg_pressure-800x600.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Leg_pressure.jpg)

Legs finished!

[![Legs_result](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Legs_result-800x600.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Legs_result.jpg)

Now take the upper part of the Lack. You can see the 4 little holes on the sides.

[![Table_upside-down](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Table_upside-down-800x600.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Table_upside-down.jpg)

[![Screws](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Screws-800x600.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Screws.jpg)

The Ikea screws have to be applied in the legs and then in the table.[![Apply_screws](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Apply_screws-600x800.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Apply_screws.jpg) [![Screw_leg_and_table](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Screw_leg_and_table-600x800.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Screw_leg_and_table.jpg)

Aaaand it looks cool, but it's not yet the end.

[![Legs_applied](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Legs_applied-800x600.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Legs_applied.jpg)

Some levelling is needed or the table will be unstable. Place the Lack upside down and be sure it's on a horizontal surface. I used newspapers.

[![Levelling](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Levelling-800x600.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Levelling.jpg)

After that verify that every leg is at the same height with every leg. If not, scratch the rubber with the sandpaper of the taller legs.

[![Levelling_legs](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Levelling_legs-800x600.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Levelling_legs.jpg)

Since only one of the legs was incorrect and I was tired of scratching it, I put a stick-on floor protector on another leg. Now the leg with the protector was to tall, so I scratched the protector. It's not a very clean solution, but it worked.

[![Stick](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Stick-800x600.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Stick.jpg) [![Cut_sticker](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Cut_sticker-800x600.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Cut_sticker.jpg)


### Final result


Its weight is **3.5 kg** once cut, so it's very easy to place on the desk or remove when using the desk while sitting. An A4 piece of paper for scale.

[![Final_result](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Final_result-749x800.jpg)](http://www.matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/Final_result.jpg)
