content/post/2014-11-14-revert-google-calendar-android-app-to-previous-version.md, before:

+++
aliases      = []
categories   = ["Software"]
date         = "2014-11-14T14:21:28+00:00"
description  = "The first post of this blog"
draft        = false
hidefromhome = false
slug         = "revert-google-calendar-android-app-to-previous-version"
tags         = ["Android", "Smartphone", "Google", "Calendar"]
title        = "Revert Google Calendar Android app to previous version"
type         = "post"
weight       = 0
+++


<blockquote>EDIT: since the update of the graphical design of the Google Calendar app into a much more suitable one, with more space for the events, zooming ability, week view and more, reverting to the older version is not necessary anymore, in my opinion.</blockquote>


The new update of the Google Calendar app for Android doesn't simply fit my needs and I decided to return to the earlier version of the app.


### I don't like the new Calendar because:





	
  * I don't need the events from Gmail or the pictures, I need a calendar

	
  * my week is 7 days long, not 5 and I hate to turn the phone to landscape mode every time

	
  * the month view disappeared

	
  * I really need the zoom function a lot

	
  * the bars on the upper and left border and even the "all day events" bar got so bigger that the rest of the calendar is way too small and I can't see anything.


I really didn't expect a failure like this from Google. Usually they never disappoint.


### [![Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-57-11](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-57-11-450x800.png)](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-57-11.png)But there is a solution


On Android 4.4.4 Kitkat it's possible to uninstall any updates to the apps that were included in the original stock operative system, like Google+, Camera and Calendar. It should work on every other version of Android, but I'm not sure about Lollipop since it may have the new version of Calendar installed by default.

**Warning!** Your data may get deleted if you haven't done a sync with Google. Perform a sync first and everything should be ok.

**Warning 2!** The rollback goes quite back in time so every update of the Calendar app between the release of your version of Android and the last version is irretrievable.


### Procedure


The steps are really simple. I added also the widget in this tutorial.

1) Open the apps menu

[![Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-57-35](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-57-35-450x800.png)](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-57-35.png)

2) Locate the Calendar app and drag it to the top on the "App info" icon that should appear over there.

[![Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-57-45](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-57-45-450x800.png)](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-57-45.png) ![Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-57-52](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-57-52-450x800.png)

3) In the "App info" screen press the "Uninstall upgrades" button and confirm twice.

[![Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-57-58](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-57-58-450x800.png)](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-57-58.png)

[![Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-58-05](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-58-05-450x800.png)](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-58-05.png)

[![Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-58-09](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-58-09-450x800.png)](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-58-09.png)

4) Wait for a second or two..[![Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-58-13](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-58-13-450x800.png)](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-58-13.png)

5) and the upgrades are gone! You may already see the old calendar and check the version number. Wait for a minute or two so the app downloads your calendar events back.

[![Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-59-04](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-59-04-450x800.png)](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-58-42.png)

[![Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-58-42](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-58-42-450x800.png)](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-58-42.png)

6) If you had a problem with the widget like me, a reboot of the phone should fix it.[![Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-59-28](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-59-28-450x800.png)](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-59-28.png)

Commit message:

Fixed disappearing posts from home page, added descriptions of posts
Apparently the `hidefromhome` option in the frontmatter, even if false,
makes the post disappead from the home page. Removing the line instead
of setting it to `false` is a simple solution.

content/post/2014-11-14-revert-google-calendar-android-app-to-previous-version.md, after:

+++
aliases      = []
categories   = ["Software"]
date         = "2014-11-14T14:21:28+00:00"
description  = "The Google Calendar App has bad design: here is how you switch to the old version"
draft        = false
slug         = "revert-google-calendar-android-app-to-previous-version"
tags         = ["Android", "Smartphone", "Google", "Calendar"]
title        = "Revert Google Calendar Android app to previous version"
type         = "post"
weight       = 0
+++


<blockquote>EDIT: since the update of the graphical design of the Google Calendar app into a much more suitable one, with more space for the events, zooming ability, week view and more, reverting to the older version is not necessary anymore, in my opinion.</blockquote>


The new update of the Google Calendar app for Android doesn't simply fit my needs and I decided to return to the earlier version of the app.


### I don't like the new Calendar because:





	
  * I don't need the events from Gmail or the pictures, I need a calendar

	
  * my week is 7 days long, not 5 and I hate to turn the phone to landscape mode every time

	
  * the month view disappeared

	
  * I really need the zoom function a lot

	
  * the bars on the upper and left border and even the "all day events" bar got so bigger that the rest of the calendar is way too small and I can't see anything.


I really didn't expect a failure like this from Google. Usually they never disappoint.


### [![Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-57-11](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-57-11-450x800.png)](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-57-11.png)But there is a solution


On Android 4.4.4 Kitkat it's possible to uninstall any updates to the apps that were included in the original stock operative system, like Google+, Camera and Calendar. It should work on every other version of Android, but I'm not sure about Lollipop since it may have the new version of Calendar installed by default.

**Warning!** Your data may get deleted if you haven't done a sync with Google. Perform a sync first and everything should be ok.

**Warning 2!** The rollback goes quite back in time so every update of the Calendar app between the release of your version of Android and the last version is irretrievable.


### Procedure


The steps are really simple. I added also the widget in this tutorial.

1) Open the apps menu

[![Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-57-35](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-57-35-450x800.png)](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-57-35.png)

2) Locate the Calendar app and drag it to the top on the "App info" icon that should appear over there.

[![Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-57-45](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-57-45-450x800.png)](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-57-45.png) ![Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-57-52](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-57-52-450x800.png)

3) In the "App info" screen press the "Uninstall upgrades" button and confirm twice.

[![Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-57-58](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-57-58-450x800.png)](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-57-58.png)

[![Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-58-05](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-58-05-450x800.png)](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-58-05.png)

[![Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-58-09](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-58-09-450x800.png)](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-58-09.png)

4) Wait for a second or two..[![Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-58-13](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-58-13-450x800.png)](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-58-13.png)

5) and the upgrades are gone! You may already see the old calendar and check the version number. Wait for a minute or two so the app downloads your calendar events back.

[![Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-59-04](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-59-04-450x800.png)](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-58-42.png)

[![Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-58-42](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-58-42-450x800.png)](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-58-42.png)

6) If you had a problem with the widget like me, a reboot of the phone should fix it.[![Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-59-28](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-59-28-450x800.png)](http://matjaz.it/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Screenshot_2014-11-14-13-59-28.png)
