content/post/2014-10-15-your-phone-is-infected-not-only-computer-viruses-also-real-bacteria.md, before:

+++
aliases      = []
categories   = ["Computer", "Life Hack"]
date         = "2014-10-15T05:44:53+00:00"
description  = "The first post of this blog"
draft        = false
hidefromhome = false
slug         = "your-phone-is-infected-not-only-computer-viruses-also-real-bacteria"
tags         = ["Computer", "Life Hack", "Bacteria", "Smartphone", "Keyboard"]
title        = "Your phone is infected: not only computer viruses, also real bacteria"
type         = "post"
weight       = 0
+++


<blockquote>Disclaimer: I'm **not** a medical professional and this is **not** medical advice, just **my personal opinion**. I can not take any responsibility for the results or consequences of any attempt to use or adopt any of the information presented on this website. Please comment if you find something untrue in the text.</blockquote>


Sometimes our devices get infected, but not always is about computer viruses. Sometimes is the real ones...

We all know that you should wash you hands after touching money, because money travels from hand to hand and everybody touched them. But how many times have you cleaned your phone? I'm not talking about rubbing the screen in your shirt, I'm talking about **disinfection**. Some [studies](http://center4research.org/i-saw-it-on-the-internet/are-there-more-bacteria-on-computer-keyboards-than-toilet-seats/) show that there is much more bacteria on your smartphone or computer keyboard than on your toilet seat. Clean them!


### "Alcohol is the solution!"


A routine I have is to disinfect my stuff periodically. I do it **every few months** (sometimes 1, sometimes 3). I use **ethyl alcohol** to deeply clean and disinfect at the same time. The con is that the stuff you clean stays smelly for about an hour and you have to open the windows, but it's not tragic, right?


### What should I clean?




<blockquote>The rule of thumb I use is: stuff (not only) you touch all day but usually don't clean.</blockquote>


A warning: **don't clean too often** because it weakens your immune system. What "too often" means, that's another can of worms (see upper disclaimer).

Extra tip: **wash your hands regularly**, especially after using public transportation, in my opinion.


### My personal list


This is my personal list of stuff-that-needs-periodical-disinfection:



	
  1. Phone*****: alcohol [may damage the touch screen](http://lifehacker.com/5665119/how-to-safely-disinfect-and-clean-your-gadgets), but should not be a problem if you use a screen protector;

	
  2. Laptop computer*****: touchpad, keyboard. Use a clean cloth for the screen if not sure;

	
  3. USB Sticks: especially those passed to other people;

	
  4. Chargers;

	
  5. Keys;

	
  6. Wallet: deeply, because of the money;

	
  7. Glasses*****: use some specific cleaning product if not sure;

	
  8. Desktop computer*****: mouse and **keyboard** (unmount all keys, if possible, and clean them on every side + the inside of your keyboard), power button, screen buttons;

	
  9. TV or other remotes;

	
  10. Game console controllers;

	
  11. Desk;

	
  12. Pens, pencils and other stationary you use often;

	
  13. Pencil case;

	
  14. Bag/backpack: washing them is often enough;

	
  15. Door handles;

	
  16. Light switches;

	
  17. Car: steering wheel, gear lever, all handles.


* = alcohol may damage the product or parts of it, like the screen, color, lenses coating. If you are not 100% sure of what you do, check the manufacturer's guidelines about cleaning it.

Commit message:

Fixed disappearing posts from home page, added descriptions of posts
Apparently the `hidefromhome` option in the frontmatter, even if false,
makes the post disappead from the home page. Removing the line instead
of setting it to `false` is a simple solution.

content/post/2014-10-15-your-phone-is-infected-not-only-computer-viruses-also-real-bacteria.md, after:

+++
aliases      = []
categories   = ["Computer", "Life Hack"]
date         = "2014-10-15T05:44:53+00:00"
description  = "Cleaning up the things I touch the most"
draft        = false
slug         = "your-phone-is-infected-not-only-computer-viruses-also-real-bacteria"
tags         = ["Computer", "Life Hack", "Bacteria", "Smartphone", "Keyboard"]
title        = "Your phone is infected: not only computer viruses, also real bacteria"
type         = "post"
weight       = 0
+++


<blockquote>Disclaimer: I'm **not** a medical professional and this is **not** medical advice, just **my personal opinion**. I can not take any responsibility for the results or consequences of any attempt to use or adopt any of the information presented on this website. Please comment if you find something untrue in the text.</blockquote>


Sometimes our devices get infected, but not always is about computer viruses. Sometimes is the real ones...

We all know that you should wash you hands after touching money, because money travels from hand to hand and everybody touched them. But how many times have you cleaned your phone? I'm not talking about rubbing the screen in your shirt, I'm talking about **disinfection**. Some [studies](http://center4research.org/i-saw-it-on-the-internet/are-there-more-bacteria-on-computer-keyboards-than-toilet-seats/) show that there is much more bacteria on your smartphone or computer keyboard than on your toilet seat. Clean them!


### "Alcohol is the solution!"


A routine I have is to disinfect my stuff periodically. I do it **every few months** (sometimes 1, sometimes 3). I use **ethyl alcohol** to deeply clean and disinfect at the same time. The con is that the stuff you clean stays smelly for about an hour and you have to open the windows, but it's not tragic, right?


### What should I clean?




<blockquote>The rule of thumb I use is: stuff (not only) you touch all day but usually don't clean.</blockquote>


A warning: **don't clean too often** because it weakens your immune system. What "too often" means, that's another can of worms (see upper disclaimer).

Extra tip: **wash your hands regularly**, especially after using public transportation, in my opinion.


### My personal list


This is my personal list of stuff-that-needs-periodical-disinfection:



	
  1. Phone*****: alcohol [may damage the touch screen](http://lifehacker.com/5665119/how-to-safely-disinfect-and-clean-your-gadgets), but should not be a problem if you use a screen protector;

	
  2. Laptop computer*****: touchpad, keyboard. Use a clean cloth for the screen if not sure;

	
  3. USB Sticks: especially those passed to other people;

	
  4. Chargers;

	
  5. Keys;

	
  6. Wallet: deeply, because of the money;

	
  7. Glasses*****: use some specific cleaning product if not sure;

	
  8. Desktop computer*****: mouse and **keyboard** (unmount all keys, if possible, and clean them on every side + the inside of your keyboard), power button, screen buttons;

	
  9. TV or other remotes;

	
  10. Game console controllers;

	
  11. Desk;

	
  12. Pens, pencils and other stationary you use often;

	
  13. Pencil case;

	
  14. Bag/backpack: washing them is often enough;

	
  15. Door handles;

	
  16. Light switches;

	
  17. Car: steering wheel, gear lever, all handles.


* = alcohol may damage the product or parts of it, like the screen, color, lenses coating. If you are not 100% sure of what you do, check the manufacturer's guidelines about cleaning it.
