content/post/2015-04-15-my-gpg-or-how-to-look-like-a-real-nerd.md, before:

+++
aliases      = []
categories   = ["Privacy and Security"]
date         = "2015-04-15T06:23:41+00:00"
description  = "Link to my PGP public key"
draft        = false
highlight    = false
slug         = "my-gpg-or-how-to-look-like-a-real-nerd"
tags         = ["E-mail", "Security", "GnuPG", "PGP"]
title        = "My GPG or 'How to look like a real nerd'"
type         = "post"
weight       = 0
+++


I started to use GnuPG and it looks pretty cool, although its user experience is
just awful. The complexity is high enough to make you do mistakes without even
realizing it. On the other hand, modern encryption protocols and systems like
[Signal](https://whispersystems.org/) are **much** more user-friendly.

But PGP systems get really useful for signatures, for instance for signing _Git_
commits.

[**My public PGP key**](https://keybase.io/TheMatjaz/key.asc) is available on
[my Keybase profile](https://keybase.io/TheMatjaz).

Happy e-mailing!

[Edited on 2016-02-07 to update to my new public key and Keybase]

Commit message:

Write longer descriptions of the posts and pages for the home page
Those descriptions will be displayed on the home page under each post
title as a synopsis.

content/post/2015-04-15-my-gpg-or-how-to-look-like-a-real-nerd.md, after:

+++
aliases      = []
categories   = ["Privacy and Security"]
date         = "2015-04-15T06:23:41+00:00"
description  = "I made a OpenPGP keypair. Get my public key in this post."
draft        = false
highlight    = false
slug         = "my-gpg-or-how-to-look-like-a-real-nerd"
tags         = ["E-mail", "Security", "GnuPG", "PGP"]
title        = "My GPG or 'How to look like a real nerd'"
type         = "post"
weight       = 0
+++


I started to use GnuPG and it looks pretty cool, although its user experience is
just awful. The complexity is high enough to make you do mistakes without even
realizing it. On the other hand, modern encryption protocols and systems like
[Signal](https://whispersystems.org/) are **much** more user-friendly.

But PGP systems get really useful for signatures, for instance for signing _Git_
commits.

[**My public PGP key**](https://keybase.io/TheMatjaz/key.asc) is available on
[my Keybase profile](https://keybase.io/TheMatjaz).

Happy e-mailing!

[Edited on 2016-02-07 to update to my new public key and Keybase]
