content/post/2015-11-30-wget-retry-until-completed-alias.md, before:

+++
aliases      = []
categories   = ["Software"]
date         = "2015-11-30T20:51:48+00:00"
description  = "The first post of this blog"
draft        = false
hidefromhome = false
slug         = "wget-retry-until-completed-alias"
tags         = ["Wget", "Shell", "Linux", "Download", "Software", "Connection"]
title        = "Wget retry-until-completed alias"
type         = "post"
weight       = 0
+++


`wget` is a great tool and may be used also in case of a low bandwidth. It works also when the connection with a server is unstable for some reason and the download of a file simply fails way to many times.

With this parameters wget tries and retries to download a specific file from an URL until it is completely finished. Also it does not restart the download from the beginning but continues from where it has stopped.

[bash]
wget --tries=0 --retry-connrefused --continue --progress=bar --show-progress --timeout=30 --dns-timeout=30 --random-wait --background --append-output=/var/log/wget_background URL
[/bash]

It is most useful as an alias in your `~/.bashrc` or `~/.zshrc` or whatever shell you're using:

[bash]
alias wget-infinite="wget --tries=0 --retry-connrefused --continue --timeout=30 --random-wait --background --append-output=/tmp/wget_background"
[/bash]

Note for OS X: if you installed `wget` through `brew`, you may need the `--with-iri` installation option.

To check the current status of your download (if there is only one simultaneous download), run:

[bash]
tail -2 /var/log/wget_background | head -1
[/bash]

which can be saved as an alias as well:

[bash]
alias wget-infinite-status="tail -2 /tmp/wget_background | head -1"
[/bash]

Commit message:

Fixed disappearing posts from home page, added descriptions of posts
Apparently the `hidefromhome` option in the frontmatter, even if false,
makes the post disappead from the home page. Removing the line instead
of setting it to `false` is a simple solution.

content/post/2015-11-30-wget-retry-until-completed-alias.md, after:

+++
aliases      = []
categories   = ["Software"]
date         = "2015-11-30T20:51:48+00:00"
description  = "Wget alias to make it retry the download infinite times until it's done"
draft        = false
slug         = "wget-retry-until-completed-alias"
tags         = ["Wget", "Shell", "Linux", "Download", "Software", "Connection"]
title        = "Wget retry-until-completed alias"
type         = "post"
weight       = 0
+++


`wget` is a great tool and may be used also in case of a low bandwidth. It works also when the connection with a server is unstable for some reason and the download of a file simply fails way to many times.

With this parameters wget tries and retries to download a specific file from an URL until it is completely finished. Also it does not restart the download from the beginning but continues from where it has stopped.

[bash]
wget --tries=0 --retry-connrefused --continue --progress=bar --show-progress --timeout=30 --dns-timeout=30 --random-wait --background --append-output=/var/log/wget_background URL
[/bash]

It is most useful as an alias in your `~/.bashrc` or `~/.zshrc` or whatever shell you're using:

[bash]
alias wget-infinite="wget --tries=0 --retry-connrefused --continue --timeout=30 --random-wait --background --append-output=/tmp/wget_background"
[/bash]

Note for OS X: if you installed `wget` through `brew`, you may need the `--with-iri` installation option.

To check the current status of your download (if there is only one simultaneous download), run:

[bash]
tail -2 /var/log/wget_background | head -1
[/bash]

which can be saved as an alias as well:

[bash]
alias wget-infinite-status="tail -2 /tmp/wget_background | head -1"
[/bash]
