content/post/2015-08-29-macbook-regular-maintenance.md, before:

+++
aliases      = []
categories   = ["Computer"]
date         = "2015-08-29T17:04:26+00:00"
description  = "The first post of this blog"
draft        = false
hidefromhome = false
slug         = "macbook-regular-maintenance"
tags         = ["Backup", "Calibration", "Cleanup", "Wipe", "Software", "Mac", "Tip"]
title        = "MacBook regular maintenance (also for other machines)"
type         = "post"
weight       = 0
+++


Those are the steps I usually do to cleanup, verify and recalibrate a MacBook regularly. Those steps should work for iMacs too (except the battery recalibration and similar stuff) and can be used as a guideline for other operating systems too but with other software tools than the mentioned ones. Perform them in this order if unsure.



	
  1. Close all running programs and applications, if possible

	
  2. Perform a backup of the whole machine; use [TimeMachine](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201250)

	
  3. Empty the trash can

	
  4. Run [CCleaner](https://www.piriform.com/ccleaner) to remove temporary and unused files

	
  5. Use [CCleaner](https://www.piriform.com/ccleaner) also to check if there are some unwanted programs on startup

	
  6. Check for unused and removable apps; use [AppCleaner](http://www.freemacsoft.net/appcleaner/)

	
  7. Check for unused files and remove them or move them to another machine or disk

	
  8. Perform a backup of all the e-mails in your e-mail client; export your mailbox with Apple Mail

	
  9. Vacuum Apple Mail database to improve it's performance by running this command in the terminal: `sqlite3 ~/Library/Mail/V2/MailData/Envelope\ Index vacuum;`

	
  10. Update the packages with your favourite package manager; if you use Homebrew: `brew update; brew upgrade; brew cleanup`

	
  11. Update the software installed with any market or store; AppStore updates

	
  12. Perform a disk integrity check; run _verify disk_ with _disk utility.app_

	
  13. Still using _disk utility.app,_ verify and correct the disk permissions

	
  14. Perform a full-system scan with your favourite antivirus

	
  15. Recalibrate the battery of your laptop; follow [this guide](http://support.apple.com/kb/ht1490) for MacBooks (see below for short version)

	
  16. Perform an [SMC reset](http://support.apple.com/kb/HT3964) and a [NVRAM (a.k.a. PRAM) reset](https://support.apple.com/kb/HT1379) (see below for short version)

	
  17. Add a log entry in [CoconutBattery.app](http://www.coconut-flavour.com/coconutbattery/)

	
  18. Clean the computer screen with a clean cloth

	
  19. [Clean the keyboard, touchpad, laptop case, charger, mouse and other peripherals with alcohol](http://matjaz.it/your-phone-is-infected-not-only-computer-viruses-also-real-bacteria/)

	
  20. Perform a reboot




### [MacBook battery calibration](http://support.apple.com/kb/ht1490)


Be sure to take the right time to do it, since it forces your MacBook to be charging without interruptions and shut down for some hours.



	
  1. **Fully charge** your MacBook's battery

	
  2. Let it rest in the fully charged state for **at least two hours**

	
  3. Prevent the sleeping of the computer using [Caffeine](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/caffeine/id411246225)

	
  4. Disconnect the power adapter

	
  5. Use the MacBook until the battery dies (save your work first!)

	
  6. Let the MacBook sleep discharged for **at least five hours**

	
  7. Charge it **until it's full again**


CoconutBattery helps take track of the improvement this process does to the battery capacity.


### [SMC reset](http://support.apple.com/kb/HT3964)





	
  1. Shut down

	
  2. Plug in the MagSafe power adapter, if its not already connected

	
  3. On the built-in keyboard, press the (left side) Shift-Control-Option keys and the power button at the same time for about 3-4 seconds. Release them together. If you see the MagSafe LED blink or change color, then you've done it right, but sometimes the LED stays still

	
  4. Power on




### [NVRAM (a.k.a. PRAM) reset](https://support.apple.com/kb/HT1379)





	
  1. Shut down

	
  2. Locate the following keys on the keyboard: Command, Option, P, and R. You will need to hold these keys down simultaneously in the next step

	
  3. Turn on the computer and quickly press and hold the Command-Option-P-R keys before the Apple logo appears

	
  4. Hold the keys down until the computer restarts and you hear the startup sound

	
  5. Release the keys

	
  6. Reconfigure speaker volume, screen resolution, startup disk selection and time zone information if needed

Commit message:

Fixed disappearing posts from home page, added descriptions of posts
Apparently the `hidefromhome` option in the frontmatter, even if false,
makes the post disappead from the home page. Removing the line instead
of setting it to `false` is a simple solution.

content/post/2015-08-29-macbook-regular-maintenance.md, after:

+++
aliases      = []
categories   = ["Computer"]
date         = "2015-08-29T17:04:26+00:00"
description  = "This is how I regularly cleanup my computer, from hardware to software"
draft        = false
slug         = "macbook-regular-maintenance"
tags         = ["Backup", "Calibration", "Cleanup", "Wipe", "Software", "Mac", "Tip"]
title        = "MacBook regular maintenance (also for other machines)"
type         = "post"
weight       = 0
+++


Those are the steps I usually do to cleanup, verify and recalibrate a MacBook regularly. Those steps should work for iMacs too (except the battery recalibration and similar stuff) and can be used as a guideline for other operating systems too but with other software tools than the mentioned ones. Perform them in this order if unsure.



	
  1. Close all running programs and applications, if possible

	
  2. Perform a backup of the whole machine; use [TimeMachine](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201250)

	
  3. Empty the trash can

	
  4. Run [CCleaner](https://www.piriform.com/ccleaner) to remove temporary and unused files

	
  5. Use [CCleaner](https://www.piriform.com/ccleaner) also to check if there are some unwanted programs on startup

	
  6. Check for unused and removable apps; use [AppCleaner](http://www.freemacsoft.net/appcleaner/)

	
  7. Check for unused files and remove them or move them to another machine or disk

	
  8. Perform a backup of all the e-mails in your e-mail client; export your mailbox with Apple Mail

	
  9. Vacuum Apple Mail database to improve it's performance by running this command in the terminal: `sqlite3 ~/Library/Mail/V2/MailData/Envelope\ Index vacuum;`

	
  10. Update the packages with your favourite package manager; if you use Homebrew: `brew update; brew upgrade; brew cleanup`

	
  11. Update the software installed with any market or store; AppStore updates

	
  12. Perform a disk integrity check; run _verify disk_ with _disk utility.app_

	
  13. Still using _disk utility.app,_ verify and correct the disk permissions

	
  14. Perform a full-system scan with your favourite antivirus

	
  15. Recalibrate the battery of your laptop; follow [this guide](http://support.apple.com/kb/ht1490) for MacBooks (see below for short version)

	
  16. Perform an [SMC reset](http://support.apple.com/kb/HT3964) and a [NVRAM (a.k.a. PRAM) reset](https://support.apple.com/kb/HT1379) (see below for short version)

	
  17. Add a log entry in [CoconutBattery.app](http://www.coconut-flavour.com/coconutbattery/)

	
  18. Clean the computer screen with a clean cloth

	
  19. [Clean the keyboard, touchpad, laptop case, charger, mouse and other peripherals with alcohol](http://matjaz.it/your-phone-is-infected-not-only-computer-viruses-also-real-bacteria/)

	
  20. Perform a reboot




### [MacBook battery calibration](http://support.apple.com/kb/ht1490)


Be sure to take the right time to do it, since it forces your MacBook to be charging without interruptions and shut down for some hours.



	
  1. **Fully charge** your MacBook's battery

	
  2. Let it rest in the fully charged state for **at least two hours**

	
  3. Prevent the sleeping of the computer using [Caffeine](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/caffeine/id411246225)

	
  4. Disconnect the power adapter

	
  5. Use the MacBook until the battery dies (save your work first!)

	
  6. Let the MacBook sleep discharged for **at least five hours**

	
  7. Charge it **until it's full again**


CoconutBattery helps take track of the improvement this process does to the battery capacity.


### [SMC reset](http://support.apple.com/kb/HT3964)





	
  1. Shut down

	
  2. Plug in the MagSafe power adapter, if its not already connected

	
  3. On the built-in keyboard, press the (left side) Shift-Control-Option keys and the power button at the same time for about 3-4 seconds. Release them together. If you see the MagSafe LED blink or change color, then you've done it right, but sometimes the LED stays still

	
  4. Power on




### [NVRAM (a.k.a. PRAM) reset](https://support.apple.com/kb/HT1379)





	
  1. Shut down

	
  2. Locate the following keys on the keyboard: Command, Option, P, and R. You will need to hold these keys down simultaneously in the next step

	
  3. Turn on the computer and quickly press and hold the Command-Option-P-R keys before the Apple logo appears

	
  4. Hold the keys down until the computer restarts and you hear the startup sound

	
  5. Release the keys

	
  6. Reconfigure speaker volume, screen resolution, startup disk selection and time zone information if needed
