content/post/2015-12-02-simplesecurity-tips-for-non-techies.md, before:

+++
aliases      = []
categories   = ["Privacy and Security"]
date         = "2015-12-02T15:47:19+00:00"
description  = "The first post of this blog"
draft        = false
hidefromhome = false
slug         = "simplesecurity-tips-for-non-techies"
tags         = ["Encryption", "Password", "Security", "Tip"]
title        = "#SimpleSecurity tips for non-techies"
type         = "post"
weight       = 0
+++


A discussion with a friend about what should non-tech savvy people do to improve their information security made me think later on and write a series [[1](https://twitter.com/TheMatjaz/status/671961375233736704), [2](https://twitter.com/TheMatjaz/status/671962144469065728), [3](https://twitter.com/TheMatjaz/status/671964017221640192), [4](https://twitter.com/TheMatjaz/status/671964298739060736), [5](https://twitter.com/TheMatjaz/status/671965340209979392), [6](https://twitter.com/TheMatjaz/status/671969134670970882), [7](https://twitter.com/TheMatjaz/status/671969854598094848), [8](https://twitter.com/TheMatjaz/status/671970594787827712), [9](https://twitter.com/TheMatjaz/status/671971839225274368), [10](https://twitter.com/TheMatjaz/status/671972324170682368)] of Tweets hashtagged [#SimpleSecurity](https://twitter.com/hashtag/SimpleSecurity?src=hash) with suggestions about what to do, which software to use and how. Here I'm proposing a more curated version of them.





  * Use the [Tor Browser](https://www.torproject.org/download/download-easy.html.en) for complete anonimization.


  * Alternatively use the open-source [Firefox](https://www.mozilla.org/firefox) browser with [AdBlock](https://addons.mozilla.org/it/firefox/addon/adblock-plus/?src=search), [HTTPS Everywhere](https://addons.mozilla.org/it/firefox/addon/https-everywhere/?src=search), [NoScript](https://addons.mozilla.org/it/firefox/addon/noscript/?src=search) and [Ghostery](https://addons.mozilla.org/it/firefox/addon/ghostery/?src=search) addons.


  * Use a VPN


  * Communicate with the awesome open-source secure "_WhatsApp-like_" app [Signal](https://whispersystems.org)


  * Use a password manager to store all your passwords so you worry just about one of them. Use it to generate the random 31-characters long passwords as well. Use different passwords for each application/website/service.


  * Avoid Windows and use Linux/Unix. If you have to use Windows choose and pay for a good antivirus.


  * Check your firewall rules.


  * Encrypt your computer's hard drive(s) and phone.


  * Lock your devices with a strong password.


  * Avoid open Wi-Fi networks or use a VPN or Tor on them.


  * Use WPA2 for your home Wi-Fi.


  * Never charge your phone on publicly available chargers.


  * Never share your location.


  * Close forever your Facebook account.


  * Avoid e-mails if not encrypted with PGP/GnuPG.


  * "_There is no cloud, just other people's computers_": avoid storing important unencrypted data on cloud services.


  * Set up two-step authentication if necessary.


  * Don't open e-mail attachments from unknown people.


  * Do not trust anybody unknown on the phone. Anybody can say he/she is the employee of your bank and needs your password/pin.


  * Never answer "_yes_" during spam phone calls. They record it, edit the audio track and make it figure like you accepted. If you have to, say "_ok_", since it should have no legal value (but IANAL).



Always use **strong passwords**:





  * long 25+ characters


  * small and capital letters


  * numbers


  * symbols, possibly "strange" ones, from a foreign language, for instance •∆π°©üæ


  * _avoid_ using existing words


  * _avoid_ u51ng th15 wr1t1ng


  * _avoid_ personal information in it (birthdays, names, ...)



Again, using the password manager to store all the passwords and letting it generate random passwords like `8d&amp;d05Y&amp;]]aw09baIFg-:£'miPì^`.

Stay safe!

Commit message:

Fixed disappearing posts from home page, added descriptions of posts
Apparently the `hidefromhome` option in the frontmatter, even if false,
makes the post disappead from the home page. Removing the line instead
of setting it to `false` is a simple solution.

content/post/2015-12-02-simplesecurity-tips-for-non-techies.md, after:

+++
aliases      = []
categories   = ["Privacy and Security"]
date         = "2015-12-02T15:47:19+00:00"
description  = "My #simplesecurity rants on Twitter all in one place"
draft        = false
slug         = "simplesecurity-tips-for-non-techies"
tags         = ["Encryption", "Password", "Security", "Tip"]
title        = "#SimpleSecurity tips for non-techies"
type         = "post"
weight       = 0
+++


A discussion with a friend about what should non-tech savvy people do to improve their information security made me think later on and write a series [[1](https://twitter.com/TheMatjaz/status/671961375233736704), [2](https://twitter.com/TheMatjaz/status/671962144469065728), [3](https://twitter.com/TheMatjaz/status/671964017221640192), [4](https://twitter.com/TheMatjaz/status/671964298739060736), [5](https://twitter.com/TheMatjaz/status/671965340209979392), [6](https://twitter.com/TheMatjaz/status/671969134670970882), [7](https://twitter.com/TheMatjaz/status/671969854598094848), [8](https://twitter.com/TheMatjaz/status/671970594787827712), [9](https://twitter.com/TheMatjaz/status/671971839225274368), [10](https://twitter.com/TheMatjaz/status/671972324170682368)] of Tweets hashtagged [#SimpleSecurity](https://twitter.com/hashtag/SimpleSecurity?src=hash) with suggestions about what to do, which software to use and how. Here I'm proposing a more curated version of them.





  * Use the [Tor Browser](https://www.torproject.org/download/download-easy.html.en) for complete anonimization.


  * Alternatively use the open-source [Firefox](https://www.mozilla.org/firefox) browser with [AdBlock](https://addons.mozilla.org/it/firefox/addon/adblock-plus/?src=search), [HTTPS Everywhere](https://addons.mozilla.org/it/firefox/addon/https-everywhere/?src=search), [NoScript](https://addons.mozilla.org/it/firefox/addon/noscript/?src=search) and [Ghostery](https://addons.mozilla.org/it/firefox/addon/ghostery/?src=search) addons.


  * Use a VPN


  * Communicate with the awesome open-source secure "_WhatsApp-like_" app [Signal](https://whispersystems.org)


  * Use a password manager to store all your passwords so you worry just about one of them. Use it to generate the random 31-characters long passwords as well. Use different passwords for each application/website/service.


  * Avoid Windows and use Linux/Unix. If you have to use Windows choose and pay for a good antivirus.


  * Check your firewall rules.


  * Encrypt your computer's hard drive(s) and phone.


  * Lock your devices with a strong password.


  * Avoid open Wi-Fi networks or use a VPN or Tor on them.


  * Use WPA2 for your home Wi-Fi.


  * Never charge your phone on publicly available chargers.


  * Never share your location.


  * Close forever your Facebook account.


  * Avoid e-mails if not encrypted with PGP/GnuPG.


  * "_There is no cloud, just other people's computers_": avoid storing important unencrypted data on cloud services.


  * Set up two-step authentication if necessary.


  * Don't open e-mail attachments from unknown people.


  * Do not trust anybody unknown on the phone. Anybody can say he/she is the employee of your bank and needs your password/pin.


  * Never answer "_yes_" during spam phone calls. They record it, edit the audio track and make it figure like you accepted. If you have to, say "_ok_", since it should have no legal value (but IANAL).



Always use **strong passwords**:





  * long 25+ characters


  * small and capital letters


  * numbers


  * symbols, possibly "strange" ones, from a foreign language, for instance •∆π°©üæ


  * _avoid_ using existing words


  * _avoid_ u51ng th15 wr1t1ng


  * _avoid_ personal information in it (birthdays, names, ...)



Again, using the password manager to store all the passwords and letting it generate random passwords like `8d&amp;d05Y&amp;]]aw09baIFg-:£'miPì^`.

Stay safe!
