content/post/2015-11-02-i-m-leaving-facebook.md, before:

+++
aliases      = []
categories   = ["Blog"]
date         = "2015-11-02T20:29:37+00:00"
description  = "The first post of this blog"
draft        = false
hidefromhome = false
slug         = "i-m-leaving-facebook"
tags         = ["Contact", "E-mail", "Facebook", "Social", "Time saving"]
title        = "I'm leaving Facebook"
type         = "post"
weight       = 0
+++


<blockquote>On the 1st of December 2015 I'll shut down my Facebook account.</blockquote>





### How to reach me



Gather my contact information, while you can, if you bother to stay in touch with me!




    
  * First of all, check my [Contact](http://matjaz.it/contact/) page. Write me an email (possibly encrypted with PGP/GPG).

    
  * I'll be active on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/TheMatjaz/)

    
  * and obviously on this blog.

    
  * I also exist on Skype.



For those who have also my phone number:


    
  * [Signal](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.thoughtcrime.securesms) (ex TextSecure/RedPhone), my favourite communication method for its strong security

    
  * WhatsApp (kind of forced to)

    
  * Well, you know, phone calls and SMS





### Why leave?



The reasons are many.

The content of the majority of Facebook posts is useless to me - actually the only useless content is based on some good websites, like [I f*cking love science](http://www.iflscience.com), [Lifehacker](http://lifehacker.com) and the epic [TED](http://www.ted.com). Actually I thing this CollegeHumor video explains more than 10 paragraphs of mine:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WCwmGx2ZUTc

Another thing I never really liked about Facebook are the birthday wishes. When it's John Doe's birthday, Facebook automatically remembers you to wish him something. The problem here is that everyone writes those wishes in a robotic way, automatically. They don't give the heart into it. For this reason I've never wished anything to anyone, _anyone_ on Facebook. I'm more of a handshake, hug and smile guy.

I had the idea to leave many months ago, but I was still keeping it active to keep up the contacts with people I know but I'm not often in contact. Except that I've never used those contacts. The people I'm constantly in contact with are anyway chatting with me via other services, not Facebook. The association I'm in is managed via other platforms, not Facebook. I'm not using it not even for the chat and I've stopped looking at the home page posts for many months.

I'm not even mentioning the privacy problems, which I encourage you to Google about. Facebook has a bad reputation, apparently.

_Cover "Dislike button" picture by [Sean MacEntee](https://www.flickr.com/photos/smemon/5683562879)._

Commit message:

Fixed disappearing posts from home page, added descriptions of posts
Apparently the `hidefromhome` option in the frontmatter, even if false,
makes the post disappead from the home page. Removing the line instead
of setting it to `false` is a simple solution.

content/post/2015-11-02-i-m-leaving-facebook.md, after:

+++
aliases      = []
categories   = ["Blog"]
date         = "2015-11-02T20:29:37+00:00"
description  = "A post linked on Facebook to warn all my 'friends' over there"
draft        = false
slug         = "i-m-leaving-facebook"
tags         = ["Contact", "E-mail", "Facebook", "Social", "Time saving"]
title        = "I'm leaving Facebook"
type         = "post"
weight       = 0
+++


<blockquote>On the 1st of December 2015 I'll shut down my Facebook account.</blockquote>





### How to reach me



Gather my contact information, while you can, if you bother to stay in touch with me!




    
  * First of all, check my [Contact](http://matjaz.it/contact/) page. Write me an email (possibly encrypted with PGP/GPG).

    
  * I'll be active on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/TheMatjaz/)

    
  * and obviously on this blog.

    
  * I also exist on Skype.



For those who have also my phone number:


    
  * [Signal](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.thoughtcrime.securesms) (ex TextSecure/RedPhone), my favourite communication method for its strong security

    
  * WhatsApp (kind of forced to)

    
  * Well, you know, phone calls and SMS





### Why leave?



The reasons are many.

The content of the majority of Facebook posts is useless to me - actually the only useless content is based on some good websites, like [I f*cking love science](http://www.iflscience.com), [Lifehacker](http://lifehacker.com) and the epic [TED](http://www.ted.com). Actually I thing this CollegeHumor video explains more than 10 paragraphs of mine:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WCwmGx2ZUTc

Another thing I never really liked about Facebook are the birthday wishes. When it's John Doe's birthday, Facebook automatically remembers you to wish him something. The problem here is that everyone writes those wishes in a robotic way, automatically. They don't give the heart into it. For this reason I've never wished anything to anyone, _anyone_ on Facebook. I'm more of a handshake, hug and smile guy.

I had the idea to leave many months ago, but I was still keeping it active to keep up the contacts with people I know but I'm not often in contact. Except that I've never used those contacts. The people I'm constantly in contact with are anyway chatting with me via other services, not Facebook. The association I'm in is managed via other platforms, not Facebook. I'm not using it not even for the chat and I've stopped looking at the home page posts for many months.

I'm not even mentioning the privacy problems, which I encourage you to Google about. Facebook has a bad reputation, apparently.

_Cover "Dislike button" picture by [Sean MacEntee](https://www.flickr.com/photos/smemon/5683562879)._
