content/post/2016-04-14-french-playing-cards-for-poker-in-postgresql-mysql-and-sqlite.md, before:

+++
aliases      = []
categories   = ["Software"]
date         = "2016-04-14T17:21:49+00:00"
description  = "The first post of this blog"
draft        = false
hidefromhome = false
slug         = "french-playing-cards-for-poker-in-postgresql-mysql-and-sqlite"
tags         = ["Software", "Development", "Database", "SQL", "MySQL", "PostgreSQL", "SQLite", "Poker"]
title        = "French playing cards for Poker in PostgreSQL, MySQL and SQLite"
type         = "post"
weight       = 0
+++


Not much to tell. I thought a nice SQL-programming exercise would be to see how a deck of cards could be implemented in a database. It's simple and straightforward but got me thinking a bit. [Check it out on GitHub](https://github.com/TheMatjaz/sql-playcard). I programmed different versions of the same solution for PostgreSQL, MySQL and SQLite (this one in 2 versions). Everything is BSD licensed, use it as you wish.

At first I thought about a _user defined data type_ (yay PostgreSQL!), but then I realized that the instances of the problem were limited, thus a simple relation would suffice. A lesson for the future:



<blockquote>Check for the simplest solution first. If none is found, complicate it a little. Repeat.</blockquote>



A standard french playing deck (yes, that's the official name for the _Poker cards_) contains 52 cards, 13 for each suit, and two jokers. In my solution I added an additional _Covered card_ for a card with unknown value.

_[Photo: Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:French_suits.svg)_

Commit message:

Fixed disappearing posts from home page, added descriptions of posts
Apparently the `hidefromhome` option in the frontmatter, even if false,
makes the post disappead from the home page. Removing the line instead
of setting it to `false` is a simple solution.

content/post/2016-04-14-french-playing-cards-for-poker-in-postgresql-mysql-and-sqlite.md, after:

+++
aliases      = []
categories   = ["Software"]
date         = "2016-04-14T17:21:49+00:00"
description  = "My short SQL scripts implementing a deck of Poker cards in a database"
draft        = false
slug         = "french-playing-cards-for-poker-in-postgresql-mysql-and-sqlite"
tags         = ["Software", "Development", "Database", "SQL", "MySQL", "PostgreSQL", "SQLite", "Poker"]
title        = "French playing cards for Poker in PostgreSQL, MySQL and SQLite"
type         = "post"
weight       = 0
+++


Not much to tell. I thought a nice SQL-programming exercise would be to see how a deck of cards could be implemented in a database. It's simple and straightforward but got me thinking a bit. [Check it out on GitHub](https://github.com/TheMatjaz/sql-playcard). I programmed different versions of the same solution for PostgreSQL, MySQL and SQLite (this one in 2 versions). Everything is BSD licensed, use it as you wish.

At first I thought about a _user defined data type_ (yay PostgreSQL!), but then I realized that the instances of the problem were limited, thus a simple relation would suffice. A lesson for the future:



<blockquote>Check for the simplest solution first. If none is found, complicate it a little. Repeat.</blockquote>



A standard french playing deck (yes, that's the official name for the _Poker cards_) contains 52 cards, 13 for each suit, and two jokers. In my solution I added an additional _Covered card_ for a card with unknown value.

_[Photo: Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:French_suits.svg)_
