content/post/2016-05-18-a-syringe-of-blue-ink.md, before:

+++
aliases      = []
categories   = ["Life hack"]
date         = "2016-05-18T09:30:46+00:00"
description  = "This is why I use a fountain pen"
draft        = false
highlight    = false
slug         = "a-syringe-of-blue-ink"
tags         = ["Life hack", "Fountain pen", "Trick", "Writing"]
title        = "A syringe of blue ink"
type         = "post"
weight       = 0
+++


I suddenly stop writing, open a compartment of my pencil-case and take a syringe
out. Then my hand reaches a nylon bag in my backpack.

There is a bottle of blue ink in it. I unscrew my fountain pen and expose the
ink-cartridge. With the syringe I carefully suck up some ink from the ink
bottle, inject it into the cartridge,carefully screw everything back together
and dispose the tools.

People around me usually look mesmerized at my doing.

> _"Why do you write with a fountain pen?"_

Well, we had to write with those for the first 5 years of school and it just
grew on me. I've used fountain pens as main writing tool ever since, while >99%
of others switched to ballpoint pens. There are a few reasons I like in
particular.


## Better calligraphy

I suck at writing. I've always envied whoever wrote with a nice
calligraphy. After tried many ballpoint pens it was really obvious that my best
"font" is unmistakably tied to a fountain pen. The non-viscous ink allows fast
and fluid writing while giving the letters a certain readability.

I particularly like the fact that double passes on the same line are not noticed
since the ink fills the gaps between the two lines easily. A lot of the
calligraphy is also depending on the particular nib that one uses.

Of course that works for me and for my way of writing. If you are a lefty, for
instance, of course it's a whole different story.


## Style

Come on! Writing with a fountain pen looks classy and stylish as \*\*\*\*. ;)


## Erasability

When using proper **washable ink** (royal blue in my case), whatever you write
could be erased and rewritten with an Ink Eradicator like the
[Super Pirat by Pelikan](http://www.pelikan.com/pulse/Pulsar/en_US_INTL.Store.displayStore.151333./ink-eradicator-super-sheriff-and-super-pirat). This
allows only one rewrite, after that you'll need some white correction fluid.

This is an extreme pro for anybody like me who makes a ton of mistakes for each
page. On the other hand it's a con or those who _need_ an indelible writing
(like a signature) - you'll need some non-washable ink. Consider having two
fountain pens, maybe?

I have to say that there are many good ballpoint pens today on the market with
more fluid ink and a specific eraser, just as if it was a normal pencil. I like
the
[Frixion by Pilot](http://pilotpen.us/categories/frixion-erasable-ink-pens/). The
only downside is the price.


## Price

Yes, good fountain pens are not cheap, I agree, but they are worth it. Would you
spend s\*\*\*\*ton of hours of your life writing with a 1 € ballpoint pen? Consider
some entry-level-but-non-childish fountain pens <del>like the Sonnet by Parker
with a stainless steel nib (the cheapest). You may find some at under 80
€</del>. A **huge list** of pens for beginners as well as many tips is available
on the
[Subreddit dedicated to them](https://www.reddit.com/r/fountainpens/wiki/index)
(thanks [Lorenzo](https://twitter.com/j0ined/status/732879556584046593) for the
suggestion).

On the other hand the ink is cheap, like really cheap - if you buy ink bottles
instead of cartridges. A pack of 5 cartridges is about 3 € while an ink bottle
that fills >50 cartridges is about 4 €, which means that with ink bottles you'll
save up to 90%.


## I like it

At the end of the story it's a matter of personal taste and preference. I just
like writing the fountain pens and you maybe prefer pencils and that's ok! Just
use anything that makes you feel good and produces a good result at the same
time.

Commit message:

Write longer descriptions of the posts and pages for the home page
Those descriptions will be displayed on the home page under each post
title as a synopsis.

content/post/2016-05-18-a-syringe-of-blue-ink.md, after:

+++
aliases      = []
categories   = ["Life hack"]
date         = "2016-05-18T09:30:46+00:00"
description  = "Why do I use a fountain pen? Well, I like it, I write smoothly and it can be erased easily in some cases. Curious?"
draft        = false
highlight    = false
slug         = "a-syringe-of-blue-ink"
tags         = ["Life hack", "Fountain pen", "Trick", "Writing"]
title        = "A syringe of blue ink"
type         = "post"
weight       = 0
+++


I suddenly stop writing, open a compartment of my pencil-case and take a syringe
out. Then my hand reaches a nylon bag in my backpack.

There is a bottle of blue ink in it. I unscrew my fountain pen and expose the
ink-cartridge. With the syringe I carefully suck up some ink from the ink
bottle, inject it into the cartridge,carefully screw everything back together
and dispose the tools.

People around me usually look mesmerized at my doing.

> _"Why do you write with a fountain pen?"_

Well, we had to write with those for the first 5 years of school and it just
grew on me. I've used fountain pens as main writing tool ever since, while >99%
of others switched to ballpoint pens. There are a few reasons I like in
particular.


## Better calligraphy

I suck at writing. I've always envied whoever wrote with a nice
calligraphy. After tried many ballpoint pens it was really obvious that my best
"font" is unmistakably tied to a fountain pen. The non-viscous ink allows fast
and fluid writing while giving the letters a certain readability.

I particularly like the fact that double passes on the same line are not noticed
since the ink fills the gaps between the two lines easily. A lot of the
calligraphy is also depending on the particular nib that one uses.

Of course that works for me and for my way of writing. If you are a lefty, for
instance, of course it's a whole different story.


## Style

Come on! Writing with a fountain pen looks classy and stylish as \*\*\*\*. ;)


## Erasability

When using proper **washable ink** (royal blue in my case), whatever you write
could be erased and rewritten with an Ink Eradicator like the
[Super Pirat by Pelikan](http://www.pelikan.com/pulse/Pulsar/en_US_INTL.Store.displayStore.151333./ink-eradicator-super-sheriff-and-super-pirat). This
allows only one rewrite, after that you'll need some white correction fluid.

This is an extreme pro for anybody like me who makes a ton of mistakes for each
page. On the other hand it's a con or those who _need_ an indelible writing
(like a signature) - you'll need some non-washable ink. Consider having two
fountain pens, maybe?

I have to say that there are many good ballpoint pens today on the market with
more fluid ink and a specific eraser, just as if it was a normal pencil. I like
the
[Frixion by Pilot](http://pilotpen.us/categories/frixion-erasable-ink-pens/). The
only downside is the price.


## Price

Yes, good fountain pens are not cheap, I agree, but they are worth it. Would you
spend s\*\*\*\*ton of hours of your life writing with a 1 € ballpoint pen? Consider
some entry-level-but-non-childish fountain pens <del>like the Sonnet by Parker
with a stainless steel nib (the cheapest). You may find some at under 80
€</del>. A **huge list** of pens for beginners as well as many tips is available
on the
[Subreddit dedicated to them](https://www.reddit.com/r/fountainpens/wiki/index)
(thanks [Lorenzo](https://twitter.com/j0ined/status/732879556584046593) for the
suggestion).

On the other hand the ink is cheap, like really cheap - if you buy ink bottles
instead of cartridges. A pack of 5 cartridges is about 3 € while an ink bottle
that fills >50 cartridges is about 4 €, which means that with ink bottles you'll
save up to 90%.


## I like it

At the end of the story it's a matter of personal taste and preference. I just
like writing the fountain pens and you maybe prefer pencils and that's ok! Just
use anything that makes you feel good and produces a good result at the same
time.
