content/post/2016-02-07-improving-my-wordpress-blog-look-and-speed.md, before:

+++
aliases      = []
categories   = ["Blog"]
date         = "2016-02-07T15:13:20+00:00"
description  = "The first post of this blog"
draft        = false
hidefromhome = false
slug         = "improving-my-wordpress-blog-look-and-speed"
tags         = ["Blog", "Performance", "Wordpress"]
title        = "Improving my Wordpress blog look and speed"
type         = "post"
weight       = 0
+++


## Theme change! Why? Because yes!



My blog switched from the [Matheson](https://wordpress.org/themes/matheson/) theme to [Decode](https://wordpress.org/themes/decode/), mainly to fix the ugly features images, but also to keep up with a more mobile-friendly design and a one-column design. Still there is a sidebar, but it's hidden on default. I must say that Decode offers a really nice design!



### Infinite scroll



By activating [Jetpack by Automattic](https://wordpress.org/plugins/jetpack/) there are many many nice options and tweaks available. One in particular is _Infinite scroll_ to allow users to just scroll down on the home page to load more posts instead of clicking on the boring "Older posts" button.

But I had a problem: on default Infinite scroll loads 7 posts each time, which was too much for me and there is no possible customization.

Just add this snippet at the end of the _functions.php_ file:

[code]
/*
 * Change the posts_per_page Infinite Scroll setting from 7 to 3
 */
function my_theme_infinite_scroll_settings( $args ) {
    if ( is_array( $args ) )
        $args['posts_per_page'] = 3;
    return $args;
}
add_filter( 'infinite_scroll_settings', 'my_theme_infinite_scroll_settings' );
[/code]

Source: [http://themeshaper.com/2013/10/08/how-to-override-jetpack-infinite-scroll-settings-in-a-child-theme/](http://themeshaper.com/2013/10/08/how-to-override-jetpack-infinite-scroll-settings-in-a-child-theme/)



### Adding a custom PGP social icon in the header



Since the theme was missing a social icon for a PGP public key (although it has like 40000 other icons!!), I created one myself, as you can see in the header - a quick copy paste of a function in a php file and some Inkscape editing. **If you don't see any blue icon under the title, deactivate AdBlock for this site**. I already reported this error to AdBlock and the author of the theme, let's see what happens...



## Improving the site speed



By testing my blog's speed with [tools.pingdom.com](http://tools.pingdom.com/) and [WebPageTest](http://webpagetest.org/), it was clear that something had to be improved.



#### Leverage browser caching



By adding the following text at the end of the _.htaccess_ file on the Wordpress root folder, the server "tells" the browser to keep static content in cache for a certain period.

[code]
# BEGIN Browser caching expires
<IfModule mod_expires.c>
ExpiresActive On
ExpiresByType text/css "access 1 month"
ExpiresByType text/html "access 1 month"
ExpiresByType image/gif "access 1 year"
ExpiresByType image/png "access 1 year"
ExpiresByType image/jpg "access 1 year"
ExpiresByType image/jpeg "access 1 year"
ExpiresByType text/plain "access plus 1 month"
ExpiresByType image/svg+xml "access 1 month"
ExpiresByType image/x-icon "access 1 year"
ExpiresByType application/pdf "access 1 month"
ExpiresByType application/javascript "access 1 month"
ExpiresByType application/x-javascript "access plus 1 month"
ExpiresByType text/x-javascript "access 1 month"
ExpiresByType application/x-shockwave-flash "access 1 month"
ExpiresDefault "access 1 month"
</IfModule>
# END Browser caching expires
[/code]

Source: [http://notlaura.com/wp-super-cache-and-browser-caching/](http://notlaura.com/wp-super-cache-and-browser-caching/)



### Enable HTTP Connection: keep-alive



Again by adding this snippet in the _.htaccess_ file, the server will keep the connection active after the file passing through it is completely downloaded. This will improve speed since the connection may be reused instead of being closed and reopened. Watch out: this configuration depends on the Apache Web Server configuration. If you are on a shared hosting, it may not work since you won't have access to the Apache settings.

[code]
# BEGIN keep alive
<IfModule mod_headers.c>
Header set Connection keep-alive
</IfModule>
# END keep alive
[/code]

Source: [https://varvy.com/pagespeed/keep-alive.html](https://varvy.com/pagespeed/keep-alive.html)



### Combine and minify JS and CSS



The [Autoptimize](https://wordpress.org/plugins/autoptimize/) Wordpress plugin solved the problem for me. It also integrates well with WP Super Cache.

Commit message:

Fixed disappearing posts from home page, added descriptions of posts
Apparently the `hidefromhome` option in the frontmatter, even if false,
makes the post disappead from the home page. Removing the line instead
of setting it to `false` is a simple solution.

content/post/2016-02-07-improving-my-wordpress-blog-look-and-speed.md, after:

+++
aliases      = []
categories   = ["Blog"]
date         = "2016-02-07T15:13:20+00:00"
description  = "This is how I made my blog a little bit better and nicer"
draft        = false
slug         = "improving-my-wordpress-blog-look-and-speed"
tags         = ["Blog", "Performance", "Wordpress"]
title        = "Improving my Wordpress blog look and speed"
type         = "post"
weight       = 0
+++


## Theme change! Why? Because yes!



My blog switched from the [Matheson](https://wordpress.org/themes/matheson/) theme to [Decode](https://wordpress.org/themes/decode/), mainly to fix the ugly features images, but also to keep up with a more mobile-friendly design and a one-column design. Still there is a sidebar, but it's hidden on default. I must say that Decode offers a really nice design!



### Infinite scroll



By activating [Jetpack by Automattic](https://wordpress.org/plugins/jetpack/) there are many many nice options and tweaks available. One in particular is _Infinite scroll_ to allow users to just scroll down on the home page to load more posts instead of clicking on the boring "Older posts" button.

But I had a problem: on default Infinite scroll loads 7 posts each time, which was too much for me and there is no possible customization.

Just add this snippet at the end of the _functions.php_ file:

[code]
/*
 * Change the posts_per_page Infinite Scroll setting from 7 to 3
 */
function my_theme_infinite_scroll_settings( $args ) {
    if ( is_array( $args ) )
        $args['posts_per_page'] = 3;
    return $args;
}
add_filter( 'infinite_scroll_settings', 'my_theme_infinite_scroll_settings' );
[/code]

Source: [http://themeshaper.com/2013/10/08/how-to-override-jetpack-infinite-scroll-settings-in-a-child-theme/](http://themeshaper.com/2013/10/08/how-to-override-jetpack-infinite-scroll-settings-in-a-child-theme/)



### Adding a custom PGP social icon in the header



Since the theme was missing a social icon for a PGP public key (although it has like 40000 other icons!!), I created one myself, as you can see in the header - a quick copy paste of a function in a php file and some Inkscape editing. **If you don't see any blue icon under the title, deactivate AdBlock for this site**. I already reported this error to AdBlock and the author of the theme, let's see what happens...



## Improving the site speed



By testing my blog's speed with [tools.pingdom.com](http://tools.pingdom.com/) and [WebPageTest](http://webpagetest.org/), it was clear that something had to be improved.



#### Leverage browser caching



By adding the following text at the end of the _.htaccess_ file on the Wordpress root folder, the server "tells" the browser to keep static content in cache for a certain period.

[code]
# BEGIN Browser caching expires
<IfModule mod_expires.c>
ExpiresActive On
ExpiresByType text/css "access 1 month"
ExpiresByType text/html "access 1 month"
ExpiresByType image/gif "access 1 year"
ExpiresByType image/png "access 1 year"
ExpiresByType image/jpg "access 1 year"
ExpiresByType image/jpeg "access 1 year"
ExpiresByType text/plain "access plus 1 month"
ExpiresByType image/svg+xml "access 1 month"
ExpiresByType image/x-icon "access 1 year"
ExpiresByType application/pdf "access 1 month"
ExpiresByType application/javascript "access 1 month"
ExpiresByType application/x-javascript "access plus 1 month"
ExpiresByType text/x-javascript "access 1 month"
ExpiresByType application/x-shockwave-flash "access 1 month"
ExpiresDefault "access 1 month"
</IfModule>
# END Browser caching expires
[/code]

Source: [http://notlaura.com/wp-super-cache-and-browser-caching/](http://notlaura.com/wp-super-cache-and-browser-caching/)



### Enable HTTP Connection: keep-alive



Again by adding this snippet in the _.htaccess_ file, the server will keep the connection active after the file passing through it is completely downloaded. This will improve speed since the connection may be reused instead of being closed and reopened. Watch out: this configuration depends on the Apache Web Server configuration. If you are on a shared hosting, it may not work since you won't have access to the Apache settings.

[code]
# BEGIN keep alive
<IfModule mod_headers.c>
Header set Connection keep-alive
</IfModule>
# END keep alive
[/code]

Source: [https://varvy.com/pagespeed/keep-alive.html](https://varvy.com/pagespeed/keep-alive.html)



### Combine and minify JS and CSS



The [Autoptimize](https://wordpress.org/plugins/autoptimize/) Wordpress plugin solved the problem for me. It also integrates well with WP Super Cache.
